If you're a user of Microsoft Word,
you're almost certainly familiar with sentence case.
Seven example.
Here I can select all of these lines and go to change case and then choose sentence case
and you'll notice that word capitalizes.
The first letter on each line,
although Excel has functions,
will change in the case.
It doesn't offer a sentence case option,
so we're going to create a formula which does just that.
And for good measure,
we'll put a full stop at the end as well.
So we're working in zero for manipulating text.
That's no open up 04 creating a sentence case formula.
So here we have a worksheet,
which records I t support calls,
and we want to tidy up Colin E.
We'll notice that the case is inconsistent,
I say,
for reporting purposes we'd like toe have each Hendry start with a capital letter so and
end with a full stop.
So to do this will use the concatenation operator M percent,
So the first thing we'll do is to extract the first character and converted to uppercase so
we'll use the upper function on this takes a single argument,
which is referred to as text,
and that's the cell that you want to convert to a case.
But instead of a cell reference E to which would imply the entire entry,
we use the left function to extract.
The first letter,
as we've seen with a function,
requires two arguments the text that you want to operate on,
which is me too.
I have a number of characters you want to extract,
starting from the left,
which is of course,
one.
Then we use the concatenation operator,
but essentially means followed by what we then once I have.
Is all of the characters within two bar the first letter.
So we use the right function to achieve.
This takes two parameters.
The text that you operating on launch again is E to and then the number of characters.
To calculate this,
we use the length function as in lens,
which has a single argument.
The string that you want to know the land called.
That of course,
is to,
but we don't want to tag on the entire string.
We want to tag on the string bother first letter.
So after the close in parenthesis of the land function we need to put minus one.
So let's create a new column.
Well,
just initially copy everything.
So we've got the formats the same and then deletes all of these entries.
And as usual,
I'm gonna expand the formula bar on.
Let's create our formula.
So the first component is upper equals upper.
We nest in the left function.
So I'm gonna use old enter left.
The text is too comer on a number of characters is one,
and that completes the upper function.
Then we need an percent 57 frickin castle nation.
Well,
and,
uh,
and now we need the right function on because it will have Len nested inside it on diesel
tender again.
How text he to call me goaltender.
But the number of characters we use,
Len E to minus one or cancer on the clothes in parenthesis for the right function.
And then finally,
I'm going to tag on using ampersand and,
of course,
quotes.
Full stop.
So we extract in the first character capitalising eggs,
and then can Captain Eytan starting from the right.
All the characters inside e to which we pick up using lend me to bother first that we do
that simply by saying minus one,
and then we take it on the whole.
So and that's it.
So here we've got a tidied up version off the original entry.
Ondas.
We copy that down.
All of the entries now resemble sentences.